Alerts 2019 1 (#338)
logzio/logz-docs: _source/user-guide/alerts/configure-alerts.md

  - imnotashrimp
---

When you set out to create an alert,
you'll need to start with a query.
If you haven't formed your query yet,
we recommend starting off in Kibana

> so you can see the results of the query in real time.

Reviewer: Just making sure you have it in a note to change this once we have live preview in the alerts page :)

Author: Duly noted :)

Otherwise, if you already have a query and filters,
you can create a blank alert
from the top menu (**Alerts & Events > New alert**)

> or from the _Alert definitions_ page

Reviewer: It's also available from the `triggered alerts` page

Author: Creating an alert? Not that I see. Only for editing.

> or from the _Alert definitions_ page

Author: Done. In next push

> Community plans have a maximum of 50 alerts.

Author: ```suggestion
Community plans can have up to 50 alerts enabled at a time.
```

{:.info-box.note}

#### To create an alert in Kibana

![Kibana 7 search bar]({{site.baseurl}}/images/kibana/kibana-7-search-bar.png)

Refine your search query and filters,
and review the returned logs

> to make sure you got the expected results.

Reviewer 2: We have a char limit for the search box

Author: I'll keep an ear out if users are hitting this limit.

Alerts support Lucene query language only.
You won't be able to create an alert
from a search written in Kibana Query Language (KQL).
{:.info-box.important}

Once you're happy with your alert,
click **Create alert** (above the query bar).
You're taken to the _New alert_ page.

> Continue with [To configure an alert](#to-configure-an-alert).

Author: In the next push

#### To configure an alert {#to-configure-an-alert}

<div class="tasklist">

##### Name the alert

Give your alert a meaningful name.

If your alert is triggered,
the name is used as the email subject or Slack heading.
A helpful name gives the quick need-to-know-now information
and doesn't use unnecessary words.

##### Edit the search settings

###### Query and filters

![Alert query and filters]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/query-and-filters.png)

If you need to change your alert query and filters,
do that now.

Your query is an important source of information
when you're investigating a triggered alert.
Shorten your query by using filters whenever you can.

If you use an invalid query,
the alert will be automatically disabled.
To make sure it's valid,

> test your query in Kibana.

Reviewer: We have the ability in the alerts page to say that the query is invalid, and the user won't be able to save the alert.
@imnotashrimp I don't think we've gone over the error message if the invalid syntax.

Author: Wrote a string for the error message just now, sent privately. 

@AmirTugi So I can remove this bit completely then? Users are prevented from saving an invalid query?

Author: Removed

{:.info-box.important}

###### Group by

![Alert group by settings]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/alerts--group-by.png)

Moving down, you'll come to the **Group by** setting next.

With _Group by_, you can choose up to 3 fields to group.
The alert will return the aggregated results for each group.

> Careful, though: The order of these fields matters.

Reviewer: Classic use-case of a warning box :D

Reviewer 3: Also - group by order has NO effect on results. so this whole section is puzzling to me.

Author: @AmiStrn That's contrary to everything I've been told so far. Can you check and confirm that please?

Reviewer 2: @AmiStrn In the old page, the group-by had an effect on the results.

Author: Do we have an answer on this?
@idohalevi @AmiStrn @AmirTugi @schwin007

Author: > Classic use-case of a warning box :D

Wasn't going to, but now that I can take out the one above it, I will!

Author: Just received word that order does indeed matter. The text will remain.

###### Accounts to search

![Accounts to search setting]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/accounts-to-search.png)

Next you'll choose the _Accounts to search_.

If you choose **All accounts**,
this alert will query the logs in all the accounts it has access to.
This will include future accounts.

To limit the alert to a set list of accounts,
click **Just these accounts**,
and add the accounts you want.
This list is always limited to your selection,
so you'll need to manually update the list if you need it to change.

##### Set threshold and severity levels

![Alert trigger thresholds]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/alerts--trigger-settings.png)

Set your threshold and severity levels in the _Trigger if..._ section.

Click **Add a threshold** to set up to 5 threshold levels,
each with its own severity tag.

##### _(Optional)_ Set notification details

###### Description and tags

![Alert description and tags]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/description-and-tags.png)

The **Description** is visible on the _Alert definitions_ page.
It's also included with emails and Slack messages when the alert is triggered.
We recommend making your description helpful to recipients,

> like telling them how to fix the issues that led to the alert.

Reviewer 2: We have a char limit for the description box

Author: Even less likely users will hit it. Leaving this as is.

The **Tags** are useful for filtering the _Alert definitions_ page.

###### Who to send it to

![Recipients and suppress notifications]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/recipients-and-suppress.png)

If you want to send notifications or emails when the alert is triggered,
choose notification endpoints.
This isn't required, though—triggered alerts are still logged and searchable in Kibana.

Choose the endpoints or email addresses to notify under _Who to send it to_.
If you need help adding a new endpoint,
see [_Notification endpoints_]({{site.baseurl}}/user-guide/integrations/endpoints.html).

> Choose a time period to suppress notifications.

Reviewer: This feels like you changed context too quickly.
I guess a small intro will be nice here "If you think you will be getting this alert's notification too often, ..."

Author: Done.

When notifications are suppressed,

> Logz.io will continue to log triggered alerts without sending notifications.

Reviewer 2: Why is it in a note box? no need in my opinion

Author: This was from user feedback a while back. Apparently folks were confused about what suppressing notifications actually meant. I'll keep this as is unless there's a good reason to change.

You can search triggered alert logs at any time.
{:.info-box.note}

> ###### Output format

Reviewer 2: Only relevant when they added a notification endpoint

Author: Fixed

![Output table]({{site.baseurl}}/images/alerts/output-table.png)

> You can choose to send **All fields** in JSON format,

Reviewer: Those will soon change.
We need to be synced with each other to validate the docs.

Author: Noted.
